# Contribution Statement

## Individual Statements
**Rohan:** My contributions to this homework included the filter_data function in the utils.py file that filters multiple columns in a dataframe by multiple parameters in a single function call, the tip_amt_prediction notebook where I created two linear models to predict tip amounts from select features that were favored in the tip_analysis notebook, and general repository cleanliness through the creation of a figures and tables folder that we used to store visualizations and data and display in this main.ipynb file.

**Daniel:** My contributions to this homework included the tip_analysis notebook that examined the relationships between tips and trip distance + total fare amount. These included scatter plot and line graph visualizations saved into the figures directory, as well as some additional analysis into tips as a share of total fare and tips by day of week. I also took part in finding the initial dataset, brainstorming analysis steps, and communicating with the owner of the datasets to clarify certain features.

**Xingrui:** My contribution included the "busy_time_and_fares_analysis" notebook contains my research on the busiest hour during a day and weekday vs weekends; and and how fares change over time. Added my narrative conclusion related to my analysis to the main notebook; Also made the binder link and the LICENSE file for our project.

**Stephanie:** My contributions to this homework included data cleaning to produce the taxi_clean.csv file and all the util functions excluding the filtering function. I also wrote tests for the util functions I added and set up the taxitools package. For analysis, I worked on the location_analysis.ipynb, where I created heatmaps to visualize comparisons between pickups and dropoffs in relation to fares per mile, and I added my observations for this section in this main notebook. I also created and configured the environment, created the Makefile, and wrote the README (excluding the testing section).

## Overall
Throughout this project, the entire group took part in various sections of the analysis and actively making the repository readable and reproducible through the use of virtual environments, binder links, documentation, Makefile, repository restructuring, etc. We all also contributed to maintaining a structured workflow by working on personal branches and making pull requests to the main branch. We were able to accomplish reproducibility in accessing data (by providing direct access to it within the repository), documenting all changes made to the data (using the taxi_clean notebook), and outling all the analysis steps taken to come to the conclusions in the main notebook. However, one thing we attempted that proved unsuccessful was the inclusion of a Jupyter book. Despite including all the necessary files, we were unable to get the Jupyter book to run on a local server. Despite this, we continued to make our repository as reproducible as possible by providing a Makefile, Binder link, and virtual environment with clear instructions in the README.